What is .NET Framework?
How .NET provides language independency?
Architecture of .NET Environment
Execution process of .NET Application
Tools of .NET Environment like ILDASM.Exe
What are different kinds of Apps that U can develop with .NET
What is the role of C# in .NET app development?
What are the features of C# language?
How to use VS 2019 to create .NET App using C# language?
What is the difference b/w the .NET Framework and .NET Core?
How to develop a Hello World Program in C# using VS 2019?
What do these keywords mean: Main, string[] args, static, class, namespace in a C# Application?
What does Console.WriteLine and Console.ReadLine do in a .NET Application?

Data Types:
What do you mean by Common Type System?
What are different kinds of Data types supported by .NET?
What is the meaning of Value types and Reference types?
What are the primitive data types of .NET and their keywords in C#?
Which is the best way to convert one type to another in .NET?
What do U mean by check block in a .NET Program?
What is the difference b/w Convert class and ValueType's Parse method?
What is the Universal data type of .NET?
What is the conversion of a value type to an object type called?
What is implicit and explicit casting in .NET app?
Why do you cast when U have a data stored as object?
How to use DateTime in C# Apps?
How to use strings and its conversions in C# Apps?

Conditional Statements and loops:
What is the purpose of a if...else statement in C#?
What is the purpose of a switch...case statement in C#?
What is the purpose of a do...while statement in C#?
What is the purpose of a while loop in C#?
What is the purpose of a for loop in C#?
What is the purpose of a foreach loop in C#?

Arrays in C#
What kind of type is an Array in C#?
How do U create a single dimensional Array in C#?
How do U create a 2-D Array in C#?
What is the meaning of Jagged Array in C#?
How to work with Array of Strings?
What are the limitations of Array?
What is the use of the Array Class in C#?
What is the difference b/w Array.CopyTo, Array.Copy and Array.Clone?
How can we create a dynamic Array in C# where we dont know the type and size at compile time?

Enums in C#
What is the purpose of Enums in a programming world?
What is the keyword used to create Enums in C#?
How do we know the possible values of an Enum type in C#?
How do we convert a user input to an Enum type in C#?

Classes And Objects:
What is the purpose of a class in a programming language?
How to create a class in C#?
What is the clarification on a Class and an object of a class?
How to create a class to represent a Course of a Training Institute?
How to create fields in a Class?
How to create properties or Accessors in a Class?
What is the purpose of methods in a Class?
How can we hide data that should not be accessed by objects of the class itself?
How to create a Repo Class to store multiple courses in a Program?
How to create a Menu driven program that will perform CRUD operations in a C# App?

Object Oriented Programming Aspects:
What do you mean by SOLID Principles of Object Oriented Programming?
How do we inherit one class into another in C#?
What do you mean by base class and derived class in C#?
What do you mean by Single Inheritance and Mutliple Inheritance in a OO Programming language?
What happens if a derived class creates a member by the same name that is available in the derived class?
What do you mean by Method overriding?
What are the keywords used to implement method overriding?
What are the rules of implementing method overriding?
What happens if the non overridable method is reimplemented in the derived class?
How do we achieve Runtime Polymorphism in C#?
What are abstract classes and how can we implement them?
What are the features of an abstract class and its methods?
What are interfaces in OOP?
How to create interfaces in C#?
What is the difference b/w the Abstract class and interfaces in C#?
What are sealed Classes and sealed methods?
What are constructors in a OOP?
How do we create parameterized constructors in C#?
How can we call the base class constructor in a derived class?
What is the use of a base keyword and this keyword in C#?
How can we implement a Factory pattern class in C#?

Generic Collections:
What do you mean by Generic Classes?
How can we create Generic Classes in C#?
Can we restrict the type for a Generic class? How can we do that?
How to create a Generic method in C#?
Using Generic Lists, HashSets, Dictionaries in C#?
How to implement Hashsets on Custom Data types like Entity classes?
What is the purpose of overriding GetHashCode() and Equals Method?
How can we implement the Repo class of Courses using List<Course>?
Applying Runtime Polymorphism using the Factory Class.
How can we sort the data of a List?
How can we sort the data of a list on multiple conditions?
Which interface needs to be implemented if an object of a class needs to be used in a foreach statement?
What is the use of IComparable<T> and IComparer<T>?

Delegates and Events:
What is a Delegate?
What is the syntax of delegate?
Where do we use delegates in .NET Application ?
How to create Events in a class?
How to create Event handler in the consumer class(The class that wants to trigger the event).
What is the purpose of BeginInvoke Function of a delegate object?
How to create Async Functions without using Threads in C#?
What is Single cast and Multi Cast Delegate?
Try an example of a delegate and event example shared in GIT Repo.

File Handling?
How to read a Text file in C#?
How to read a CSV File in C#? Why do we use CSV Files?
How to create New Directory in UR Machine? 
How to create Files in UR machine?
How to transfer Files from one directory to another Directory?
How to list all the files in a given directory?
How to list all the specific files from a given directory?
How to read, write and update files in C#?
What is serialization in C#?
Binary Serialization, XML Serialization. 
How can we serialize an object of a class in C#?
How to serialize the collection object in C#? and how to deserialize them?
A CRUD operation on File data.(Adding new, Reading old, updating and deleting old data)

Multi Threading
What is a thread?
How to create a new thread and invoke it in Main function?
How to stop/pause a thread execution while its running ?
How to run 2 threads that reads the same data?
How to make only one thread to read the data while other threads have to wait?
What is a Task<T>?
How to make functions run on multiCores of the OS?

ADO.NET:
What is the Data Access Model of .NET Environment?
What is connected Model and disconnected Model?
What is the advantage of Connected Data Model?
What are the classes required for Connected Model of database access?
How to display the data of 2 columns on the Console?
How to insert data from the inputs from the user into a database?
How to convert the data from the database to a List<T> of objects. 
How to convert an object of class to values for insert into database and insert it?
How to convert a DataReader to a DataTable?
What is the purpose of DataTable?
What U cannot do with DataReader?
What is disconnected Model?
What is the advantage of Disconnected Data Model?
What is the meaning of dataset?
How to read the data from the database using Disconnected model?
What is the purpose of Transactions in Data base programming?
How to implement transactions in Connected data access model?

Dll Programming?
Why do I need a DLL in real time Apps?
What is the purpose of dlls in real time applications?
What project type should I select to create a Dll?
How to create a dll in .NET?
Can I run a dll project?If not, how to use the Classes created in Dlls?
Can I create a non public class in Dll and call it in another Application ?
Create a dll to perform database programming and use the dll functions in a C# Console Application?
Use the dll in a Web Forms Application.


  
 






